Requirements General Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs All your files will be compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using gcc, using the options -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=c89 All your files should end with a new line A README.md file, at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory Your code should use the Betty style. It will be checked using betty-style.pl and betty-doc.pl You allowed to use a maximum of one global variable No more than 5 functions per file You are allowed to use the C standard library The prototypes of all your functions should be included in your header file called monty.h Don’t forget to push your header file All your header files should be include guarded You are expected to do the tasks in the order shown in the project

The Monty language Monty 0.98 is a scripting language that is first compiled into Monty byte codes (Just like Python). It relies on a unique stack, with specific instructions to manipulate it. The goal of this project is to create an interpreter for Monty ByteCodes files.

Monty byte code files

Files containing Monty byte codes usually have the .m extension. Most of the industry uses this standard but it is not required by the specification of the language. There is not more than one instruction per line. There can be any number of spaces before or after the opcode and its argument:

The monty program

Usage: monty file where file is the path to the file containing Monty byte code If the user does not give any file or more than one argument to your program, print the error message USAGE: monty file, followed by a new line, and exit with the status EXIT_FAILURE If, for any reason, it’s not possible to open the file, print the error message Error: Can't open file , followed by a new line, and exit with the status EXIT_FAILURE where is the name of the file If the file contains an invalid instruction, print the error message L<line_number>: unknown instruction , followed by a new line, and exit with the status EXIT_FAILURE where is the line number where the instruction appears. Line numbers always start at 1 The monty program runs the bytecodes line by line and stop if either: it executed properly every line of the file it finds an error in the file an error occured If you can’t malloc anymore, print the error message Error: malloc failed, followed by a new line, and exit with status EXIT_FAILURE. You have to use malloc and free and are not allowed to use any other function from man malloc (realloc, calloc, …)
